Docs: Add JS Utilities page (#51)
ionic-team/capacitor-site: docs-md/web/utilities.md

---
title: JavaScript Utilities
description: Capacitor's JavaScript Utilities
url: /docs/web/utilities
contributors:
  - dotNetkow
---

> # JavaScript Utilities

Author: Am I missing any? [Here's the list](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/blob/master/core/src/definitions.ts#L69). The others appear to be exclusively for use by Capacitor itself.

> <p class="intro">Capacitor has several JavaScript utilities useful for ensuring apps run successfully across multiple platforms with the same codebase. Simply import Capacitor then call the desired utility function:</p>

Reviewer: "simply", "basically", etc. are frustrating words if developers are struggling to get something working

```suggestion
<p class="intro">Capacitor has several JavaScript utilities useful for ensuring apps run successfully across multiple platforms with the same codebase. To use them, import Capacitor and call the desired utility function:</p>
```

```typescript
import { Capacitor } from '@capacitor/core';
const isAvailable = Capacitor.isPluginAvailable('Camera');
```

## convertFileSrc

`convertFileSrc: (filePath: string) => string;`

Convert a device filepath into a Web View-friendly path.

> Capacitor apps are hosted on a local HTTP server and are served with the HTTP protocol. However, device files are accessed via the File protocol. To avoid difficulties between `http://` and `file://`, paths to device files must be rewritten to use the local HTTP server. For example, `file:///path/to/device/file` must be rewritten as `http://<host>:<port>/<prefix>/path/to/device/file` before being rendered in the app.

Author: Is this correct? (Cap apps hosted on HTTP://) Adapted from [our docs here](https://ionicframework.com/docs/core-concepts/webview#file-protocol).

> Capacitor apps are hosted on a local HTTP server and are served with the HTTP protocol. However, device files are accessed via the File protocol. To avoid difficulties between `http://` and `file://`, paths to device files must be rewritten to use the local HTTP server. For example, `file:///path/to/device/file` must be rewritten as `http://<host>:<port>/<prefix>/path/to/device/file` before being rendered in the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capacitor apps are served on a different protocol than device files. To avoid difficulties between these protocols, paths to device files must be rewritten. For example, on Android, `file:///path/to/device/file` must be rewritten as `http://localhost/_capacitor_file_/path/to/device/file` before being used in the Web View.
```

```typescript
// file:///path/to/device/photo.jpg
const savedPhotoFile = await Filesystem.writeFile({
  path: "myFile.jpg",
  data: base64Data,
  directory: FilesystemDirectory.Data
});

// http://localhost/path/to/device/photo.jpg
const savedPhoto = Capacitor.convertFileSrc(savedPhotoFile.uri),
document.getElementById("savedPhoto").src = savedPhoto;
```

```html
<img id="savedPhoto" />
```

## getPlatform

`getPlatform: () => string;`

> Get the name of the platform the app is currently running on: `web, ios, android`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the name of the platform the app is currently running on: `web`, `ios`, `android`.
```

```typescript
if (Capacitor.getPlatform() === 'ios') {
  // do something
}
```

## isNative

`isNative?: boolean;`

> Check whether the currently running platform is native (`ios, android`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check whether the currently running platform is native (`ios`, `android`).
```

```typescript
if (Capacitor.isNative) {
  // do something
}
```

## isPluginAvailable

`isPluginAvailable: (name: string) => boolean;`

> Check if plugin is available on the currently running platform. The plugin name is defined in the Web plugin's configuration (`web.ts`). Works with both Capacitor Core and custom plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if a plugin is available on the currently running platform. The plugin name the name used in the plugin registry (e.g. `const { Name } = Plugins;`), which means it also works with custom plugins.
```
